---
title: "Reading report and notes of brain tissue"
date: 2024-11-3
categories: [Study]
tags: [Biomechanics],[Brain tissue]
---


# Biomechanics literature reading report
[linke of the article "Tissue-Scale Biomechanical Testing of Brain Tissue for the Calibration of Nonlinear Material Models"](https://currentprotocols.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1002/cpz1.381)

1. Brain tissue
- ultra soft and biphasic nature, difficult to control the deformation state during biomechanical testing and to quantify the highly nonlinear, timedependent tisse response
- in experiment, the stiffness balues have varied significantly
  - reason 1: lack of standardized testing protocols 缺乏标准测试协议 (Test depend on the testing technique)
  - reason 2: the testing data have been analyzed based on simplifying assumptions
- computational models (NLFEM: decrease the need for studies on humans and animals): not only used to understand brain tissue behavior, but also serve as valuable tools to assist diagnosis and treatment of diseases or to plan neurosurgical precedures


2. Experiment
- Precise calibration of nonlinear mechanical models requires experimental data sets characterizing brain tissue behavior at large strains (in vitro experiment, in vito will cause large deformation and demage) and under different loading conditions. -> having a defined and homogeneous deformation state during the experiments
- Carefully designed experimental setups can avoid artifacts that falsify the results.
- Analyzing the experimental data through continuum mechanics modeling and FEM of the exact experimental loading and boundary conditions.


3. Mechanical response
- Mechanical response involves contributions from the solid matrix and the fluid phase (high sensitive towards length, time scales and boundary conditions).
- fast loading: incompressible fluid is trapped inside the solid matrix -> stresses are higher due to the stiffening effects.
- slow loading: the fluid can escape freely from the solid matrix -> stresses are lower due to the predominant elastic response of the solid matrix.


4. what makes the testing of soft materials in general and specifically brain tissue so complicated?
- complex structure and composition: 
  - highly heterogeneous 合成的
  - contain different types of cells, fluids, and extracellular matrix proteins like collagen and elastin
  - anisotropic
  - Gummy bears: homogeneous materials, isotropic
- viscoelastic properties
  - Its mechanical responses depend on both time and rate (velocity).
  - It deforms differently on how quickly or slowly you apply a force. -> different mechanical responses on fast or slow loading. -> experiment under 40 µm/s
  - Gummy bears: do not show so much hysteresis (different responses to loading and unloading)
- sensitivity to environmental conditions
  - BT: sensitive to temperature, hydration, humidity 湿度 and PH -> experiment under 37°C
  - Gummy bear: less sensitive to environmental factors
- nonlinear and large deformation responses
  - BT: the mechanical response is not proportional to the amount of stress apllied.
  - Gummy bear: a more linear response up to a certain strain level
- fragility 脆弱fragile，脆性
  - BT: fragile and highly prone to damage during handling and testing -> Testing must be gentle enough to avoid causing micro-damage -> affect results
  - BT: studies are often done on animal tissue or postmortem 死后 due to ethical constraints
  - Gummy bear: easy to handle, replace and no ethical issues


5. Applications on the tissue scale
- diffuse axonal injury 弥漫性轴突损伤
  - small time scale (millisecond)
- traumatic brain injury 
  - small time scale
  - fast external mechanical loads -> cause damage of brain tissue -> lead to the loss of brain function
- neurosurgery 
  - intermediate time scales (seconds-minutes)
- normal pressure hydrocephalus 正常压力脑积水
  - an abnormal accumulation of fluid in the ventricles with cerebrospinal fluid pressure at normal physiological levels 液体在脑室中的异常积聚，脑脊液压力在正常生理水平
- neurodevelopment
- tumor growth
  - slow time scales (day-year)


6. Challenges in brain tissue testing
- storage time of post mortem before testing
  - Brain tissues undergo biochemical and neuroanatomical changes from the moment of death.
  - Some proteins degraded slightly, others remained stable up to 8hr, 21hr, 24hr, 32hr, 36hr, or even 72hr.
  - The reduction of preotein levels in human brain samples can be significantly lowered by storing the tissue at 4°C.
  - Later studies found a slight increase in stiffness beginning 6hr post mortem.
  - ensuring permanent hydration
  - recommended to perform all tests with 6hr post mortem


---

# Slides of Professor Silivia Budday

1. Motivation
- quantify the emchanical properties of ultrasoft tissues
- advance tissue engineering approaches 推进组织工程方法
  - mechanical properties control printability, cell behavior, shape fidelity 形状保真度
- predict brain behavior during injury and disease for novel prevention新预防, diagnosis and treatment stragtegies
  - mechanical forces drive cell migration and cortical folding 皮质折叠
- using the experiment data to simulation by FEM or NLFEM
  - abdominal aortic aneurysm腹主动脉瘤
  - to evaluate the risk of different type of head injuries


2. Challenges
- ultrasoft tissues are highly fragile and adhesive
- ultrasoft tissues are biphasic （fluid + solid）
  - neuron, glial cells神经胶质细胞, cerebrospinal fluid 脑脊液, capillary 毛细血管
  - pore fluid 孔隙流体，viscoelastic solid skeleton 粘弹性固体骨架
- Mechanical response may be heterogenous and depend on spatial and temproal resolutions.
- Results highlt deoend on length/ time scales and loading conditions. -> contradictory results in the literature 文献中得出相互矛盾的结论
- Properties may change dynamically during development, aging, and disease.
- The material can not be characterized by a single Young's modulus.


3. Ultrasoft materials
   - brain tissue
   - adipose tissue 脂肪组织
   - lung tissue
   - liver tissue
   - skeletal muscle tissue
   - mycoardium 心肌
   - smooth muscle tissue
   - breast tissue
   - artery
   - skin
   - cartilage
   - bone


4. Brain tissue
   - cerebrum 大脑
   - hypothalamus 下丘脑
   - pituitary 垂体
   - cerebellum 小脑
   - brain stem
   - spinal cord
   - white matter (lipid, GAGs - glycosaminoglycans糖胺聚糖, Cells, collagen)
     - primarily consists of myelinated axons 髓鞘轴突 that facilitate 促进 fasy transmission of neural siganls.
   - grey matter
     - contains more neuronal cell bodies, dendrites 树突, and synapses 突触


5. different regions of the human brain
   - cortex
   - thalamus
   - basal ganglia基底神经节
   - amygdala 杏仁核
   - corona radiata 放射冠
   - corpus callosum 胼胝体
   - brain stem
   - cerebellar white matter 小脑白质
   - deep cerebellar nuclei 小脑深核


6. Hydrogels 水凝胶
   - biphasic materials comprising 包含a porous 多孔的, permeable 可渗透的 solid
   - water insoluble 3D network of natural or synthetic polymers
   - at least 10% of interstitial fluid 间质液 mainly water
   - alginate-based hydrogels海藻酸盐基水凝胶
   - alginate is typically extracted from the cell walls of brown algae褐藻细胞壁
   - great potential to form stable hydrogels with modulated 调节的 mechanical properties

---

# Modeling the life cycle of the human being - Silvia Budday and Ellen Kuhl
[link of this article](https://biomechanics.stanford.edu/paper/COBME20.pdf)

1. From the third week of gestation until death, brain constantly adapts to new functional demands and can reallocate function after injury or disease. -> keep changing microscopic and macroscopic.
2. Mechanical forces seem to drive cortical folding during brain development on the macroscopic scale, brain cells sense and respond to their mechanical environment on the cellular scale. -> mechanical stimuli affect how cells migrate, differentiate, and proliferate.
3. Challenge: impossible to establish a single material model that is capable of capturing the response of the brain as a whole, at any age.
4. Brain: highly inhomogeneous living organ, dynamically changes over time both in structure and mechanical properties.
5. Unclear: which microstructural components acctually control the continuum-scale behavior of brain tissue.
6. Fibrillar collagen: the load-bearing component in other tissues, is not present in brain.
7. in Vivo: orginate from magentic resonance and diffusion tensor imaging
8. microstructural parameters:
   - FA: fractional anisotropy 分数各向异性
   - MD: mean diffusivity平均扩散率
9. The life cycle of the human being
   - the brain volume increases nonlinearly, decreases linearly over age
   - femaile briain volume is 15% smaller than the male brain in average
   - gyrification index 脑回指数 increases rapidly during early brain development and decreases lograithmically after the age of 5. 
   - Malformations of cortical development皮质发育畸形, such as lissencephaly (LISS)无脑回畸形 and polymicrogyria (POLY)多脑回畸形, or diseases, such as congenital heart disease (CHD)先天性心脏病, result in alterations in the gyrification index in early development。
   - Alzheimer’s disease (AD) leads to an accelerated decrease in the gyrification index during aging. 
   - The fractional anisotropy (FA) from magnetic resonance and diffusion tensor imaging decreases in the early developing gray matter before it plateaus; in white matter, it increases during childhood, plateaus around the age of 10, and then decreases during aging. 
   - The decrease in FA during aging is accelerated in patients with Alzheimer’s disease. 
   - The whole-brain elasticity measured using magnetic resonance elastography decreases during aging. 
   - The brain shear modulus measured using macroscopic mechanical testing remains almost constant. 
